Adding display: flex; to an element turns it into a flex container. This makes it possible to align any children of that element into rows or columns.

FLEX DIRECTION
Added to the parent item to set the direction (row or column) of the children elements. Row will align the children horizontally, and column will align the children vertically.
	. row
	. column
	. row-reverse
	. column-reverse

The default value is row.


JUSTIFY-CONTENT
https://www.w3.org/TR/css-flexbox-1/images/flex-direction-terms.svg

Sometimes the flex items within a flex container do not fill all the space in the container. It is common to want to tell CSS how to align and space out the flex items a certain way. For that these is the justify-content property.
	. center - aligns all the flex items to the center inside the flex container
	. flex-start - align items to the start of the flex container
	. flex-end - align items to the end of the flex container
	. space-between - align items to the center of the main axis, with extra space placed between the items. The first and last items are pushed to the very edge of the flex container.
	. space-around - similar to space-between, but the space is distributed around all the items

It aligns items along the main axis. For rows, the main axis is a horizontal line and for columns it is a vertical line.


ALIGN-ITEMS
Similar to justify-content property, but aligns to the cross axis, which is the opposite of the main axis. For a row it tells how to push the items in the entire row up or down within the container and for a column, how to push all the items left or right within the container.
	. flex-start - align items to the start of the flex container
	. flex-end - align items to the end of the flex container
	. center - align items to the center
	. stretch - stretch the items to fill the flex container
	. baseline - align items to their baselines. Baseline is a text concept, is like the line that the letters sit on


JUSTIFY-CONTENT
It kicks in when we have multiple lines of content. It refers to the space in-between the rows or columns of content, and not the flex items themselves.
The property values are the same as justify-content.

FLEX-WRAP
By default, a flex container will fit all flex items together. With this property you can tell CSS to wrap items: extra items move into a new row or column. The break point of where the wrapping happens depends on the size of the items and the size of the container.
	. nowrap - default setting, does not wrap items
	. wrap - wraps items from left-to-right if they are in a row, or top-to-bottom if they are in a column
	. wrap-reverse - wraps items from bottom-to-top if they are in a row, or right-to-left if they are in a column


(properties used on child elements)
FLEX-SHRINK
When it's used, it allows an item to shrink if the flex container is too small. Items shrink when the width of the parent container is smaller than the combined widths of all the flex items within it.
This property takes numbers as values. The higher the number, the more it will shrink compared to the other items in the container. It describes how much - in relation to all the other flex items - the item will grow or shrink


FLEX-GROW
It the opposite of the flex-shrink property. Controls the size of items when the parent container expands.


FLEX-BASIS
Specifies the initial size of the item before CSS makes adjustments with flex-shrink or flex-grow. The units are the same as other size properties (px, em, %, etc.). The value auto sizes items based on the content.


SHORTHAND PROPERTY
The flex-grow, flex-shrink and flex-basis properties can all be set together by using the flex property.
	e.g. flex: 1 0 px;
		flex-grow: 1;
		flex-shrink: 0;
		flex-basis: 10px;

The default property settings are flex: 0 1 auto;


ORDER
Used to tell CSS the order how flex items appear in the flex container. By default, items will appear in the same order they come in the source HTML. The property takes numbers as values, and negative numbers can be used.


ALIGN-SELF
Allows to adjust each item's alignment individually, instead of setting them all at once. Accepts the same values as align-items and will override any value set by the align-items property.

FLEX
The shorthand property for flex-grow, flex-shrink and flex-basis:
	flex: grow shrink basis
