Every website should be design for the target audience. It is therefore very important to understand who your target audience is. You need to consider who your visitors are, why they are coming (their motivations and specific goals), what your visitors are trying to achieve and what information your visitors need.

Once a site has been built, it can take a lot of time and resources to update it frequently. Working out how often people are likely to revisit your site gives you an indication for how often you should update te site. It can be helpful to set a schedule for when a site will be updated.

---------------------------------------------------
SITE MAPS
After knowing what needs to appear on you site, you can start to organize the information into sections or pages.
The aim is to create a diagram of the pages that will be used to structure the site. This is known as a site map.
To help you decide what information should go on each page, you can use a technique called card sorting. This involves placing each piece of information that a visitor might need to know on a separate piece of paper and then organizing the related inpormation into groups. The groups of information are then turned into dhe diagram that is known as the site map.

---------------------------------------------------
WIREFRAMES
A wireframe is a simple sketch of the key information that needs to go on each page of a site. It shows the hierarchy of the information and how huch space it might require.
This involves sketching or shading areas where each element ofthe page will go. By creating a wireframe you can ensure that all of the information that needs to be on a page is included.
It should focus on what information needs to be on each page and create a visual hierarchy to indicate the most important parts of each page.

You can sketch wireframes on paper or use a graphics application on you computer. There are also online wireframes tools such as those at~
http://gomockingbird.com
http://lovelycharts.com

---------------------------------------------------
ORGANIZING AND PRIORITIZING
With so much information on the page, the designer needs to organize and prioritize the information to communicte their message and help users find what they're looking for.

	PRIORITIZING
By making parts of the page look distinct from surronding content, designers draw attention to (or away from) those items.
Visual hierarchy refers to the order in which you eyes perceive what they see. It is created by adding visual contrast between the itms being displayed. Items with higher contrast are recognized and processed first. It helps users focus on the key messages that will draw people's attention, and then guide them to subsequent messages. Size, color and style helps create this.

	ORGANIZING
Grouping together related content into blocks or chucks makes the page look simpler (and easier to understand). Users should be able to identify the purpose of each block without processing each individual item. It can be achieved by using:
	. Proximity
	. Closure -> when faced with a complicated arrangement of itms, we will often look for a single or recognisable pattern or form.
	. Continuance ->  elements that are placed in a line or curve then those that are not following the same direction.
	. White space -> placing relaed items closer together and leaving a bigger gap between unrelated items.
	. Color
	. Borders

We naturally observe similarities in designh and things that are similar are perceived to be more relataed than things that are dissimipar. Repetition of similar color, size, orientation, texture, font, or shape, suggests that matching elementst have similar importance or meaning.

---------------------------------------------------
DESIGNING NAVIGATION
Site navigation not only helps people find where they want to go, but also helps them understand what you site is about and how it is organized. Good navigation tends to follow these principles:
	. Concise -> the navigation should be quick and easy to read. Try to limit te number of options in a menu to no more than eight links.
	. Clear -> users should be aple to predict the kind of information that they will find on the pag e before clicking on the link. When possible, choose single descriptive words for each link rather than phrases.
	. Selective -> the primary navigation should only reflect the sections or content of the site.
	. Context -> it lets the user know where they are in the website at that moment.
	. Interactive -> each link should be big enough to click on and the appearance of the link should change when the user hovers over each item or clicks on it.
	. Consistent -> it is best to keep the primary navigation exactly the same.